JUDY WOODRUFF. ON THE
NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, PANIC
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, PANIC
ON WALL STREET TRIGGERS STOCK
PRICES TO PLUMMET, A GLOBAL
SELL-OFF SPARKED BY CHINA'S
SELL-OFF SPARKED BY
CHINA'S MARKET MELTDOWN.
MARKET MELTDOWN. >> Ifill:
AND I'M GWEN IFILL IN
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN
IFILL IN NEW ORLEANS.
NEW ORLEANS. TONIGHT
WE BEGIN A WEEK-LONG
TONIGHT WE BEGIN A WEEK-LONG
SERIES LOOKING BACK AT THE GULF
SERIES LOOKING BACK AT THE
GULF COAST 10 YEARS AFTER THE
COAST 10 YEARS AFTER THE
CALAMITOUS HURRICANE KATRINA
TOOK HUNDREDS OF LIVES, ALTERED
THE LANDSCAPE AND CULTURE, AND
CHANGED THE REGION FOREVER.
TONIGHT: IS NEW ORLEANS PREPARED
FOR THE NEXT BIG STORM?
>> THIS IS THE KIND OF THING
THAT SHOWS US THAT THERE'S A
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE FOR COASTAL
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE FOR
COASTAL LOUISIANA.
LOUISIANA. >> Ifill:
PLUS, I SIT DOWN WITH
>> Ifill: PLUS, I SIT DOWN WITH
AWARD WINNING AUTHOR JESMYN
WARD, ABOUT HOW SHE RODE OUT THE
STORM, AND TURNED THE EXPERIENCE
INTO SEARING FICTION.
INTO SEARING FICTION. >>
Woodruff: AND, MIGRANTS FROM
>> Woodruff: AND, MIGRANTS FROM
THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
PUSH TO ENTER EUROPE: THOUSANDS
MARCH INTO SERBIA AFTER BORDERS
MARCH INTO SERBIA AFTER
BORDERS RE-OPEN.
RE-OPEN. ALL THAT AND
MORE ON TONIGHT'S
ALL THAT AND MORE ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THEY CHEERED THE
CLOSING BELL ON WALL STREET
CLOSING BELL ON WALL
STREET DAY WAS OVER.
DAY WAS OVER. THE MAJOR
U.S. INDEXES FELL 3.5-
THE MAJOR U.S. INDEXES FELL 3.5-
4%, DRIVEN BY MARKET CHAOS IN
4%, DRIVEN BY MARKET
CHAOS IN CHINA.
CHINA. THE DOW JONES
INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 588 POINTS TO CLOSE NEAR
LOST 588 POINTS TO
CLOSE NEAR 15,870.
15,870. THE NASDAQ
FELL NEARLY 180
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 180
POINTS, AND THE S&P 500 DROPPED
POINTS, AND THE S&P
500 DROPPED 77.
77. U.S. OIL PRICES ALSO DROPPED
U.S. OIL PRICES ALSO DROPPED
SHARPLY AGAIN, CLOSING NEAR $38
SHARPLY AGAIN, CLOSING
NEAR $38 A BARREL.
A BARREL. WE'LL TAKE
YOU THROUGH THIS
WE'LL TAKE YOU THROUGH THIS
DIZZYING DAY AFTER THE NEWS
DIZZYING DAY AFTER
THE NEWS SUMMARY.
SUMMARY. NORTH AND
SOUTH KOREA PULLED
NORTH AND SOUTH KOREA PULLED
BACK TODAY FROM THE BRINK OF
BACK TODAY FROM THE BRINK
OF ARMED CONFLICT.
ARMED CONFLICT. AFTER
THREE DAYS OF HIGH-LEVEL
AFTER THREE DAYS OF HIGH-LEVEL
TALKS, THE NORTH EXPRESSED
REGRET FOR A LAND MINE BLAST
THAT KILLED TWO SOUTH KOREAN
THAT KILLED TWO SOUTH
KOREAN SOLDIERS.
SOLDIERS. IN TURN, THE
SOUTH ANNOUNCED IT
IN TURN, THE SOUTH ANNOUNCED IT
WOULD HALT PROPAGANDA BROADCASTS
WOULD HALT PROPAGANDA
BROADCASTS NEAR THE BORDER.
NEAR THE BORDER. THE
TWO SIDES HAD A BRIEF
THE TWO SIDES HAD A BRIEF
ARTILLERY DUEL LAST WEEK.
THREE AMERICANS WERE AWARDED
FRANCE'S HIGHEST HONOR TODAY,
FOR STOPPING A GUNMAN ON A TRAIN
FOR STOPPING A GUNMAN ON
A TRAIN BOUND FOR PARIS.
BOUND FOR PARIS. U.S.
AIRMAN SPENCER STONE,
U.S. AIRMAN SPENCER STONE,
NATIONAL GUARDSMAN ALEK
SKARLATOS AND THEIR FRIEND,
ANTHONY SADLER TACKLED THE MAN
ANTHONY SADLER TACKLED
THE MAN FRIDAY NIGHT.
FRIDAY NIGHT. TODAY,
IN PARIS, PRESIDENT
TODAY, IN PARIS, PRESIDENT
FRANCOIS HOLLANDE PINNED THE
LEGION OF HONOR MEDALS ON THEM
LEGION OF HONOR MEDALS ON
THEM AND ON A BRITISH MAN.
AND ON A BRITISH MAN. HE
SAID THEY PREVENTED A
HE SAID THEY PREVENTED
A "VERITABLE CARNAGE."
"VERITABLE CARNAGE." >> (
translated): IN THE NAME
>> (translated): IN THE
NAME OF FRANCE, I WANT TO THANK
YOU
OF FRANCE, I WANT TO THANK
YOU FOR WHAT YOU DID.
FOR WHAT YOU DID. SINCE
FRIDAY, THE ENTIRE WORLD
SINCE FRIDAY, THE ENTIRE WORLD
ADMIRES YOUR COURAGE, YOUR CALM
UNDER PRESSURE, YOUR SPIRIT OF
UNDER PRESSURE, YOUR
SPIRIT OF RESPONSIBILITY.
RESPONSIBILITY. THIS
SOLIDARITY ALLOWED YOU TO
THIS SOLIDARITY ALLOWED YOU
TO WITH BARE HANDS, YOUR BARE
WITH BARE HANDS, YOUR BARE
HANDS, SUBDUE A HEAVILY ARMED
MAN AND READY TO DO ANYTHING.
YOUR HEROISM MUST BE AN EXAMPLE
FOR ALL, AND A SOURCE OF
FOR ALL, AND A SOURCE
OF INSPIRATION.
INSPIRATION. >> Woodruff:
THE SUSPECT, A
>> Woodruff: THE SUSPECT, A
MOROCCAN MAN NAMED AYOUB EL-
KHAZZANI, REMAINS IN CUSTODY.
HIS LAWYER SAYS HE ONLY INTENDED
TO ROB THE TRAIN, AND NOT TO
TO ROB THE TRAIN, AND NOT
TO KILL THE PASSENGERS.
KILL THE PASSENGERS. THE
PRESIDENT OF TURKEY, RECIP
THE PRESIDENT OF TURKEY, RECIP
TAYYIP ERDOGAN, TODAY CALLED FOR
NEW ELECTIONS AFTER TALKS ON
FORMING A GOVERNING COALITION
FORMING A GOVERNING
COALITION FAILED.
FAILED. THE VOTE COULD
COME ON NOVEMBER
THE VOTE COULD COME
ON NOVEMBER FIRST.
FIRST. ERDOGAN'S
A.K. PARTY HAS HELD
ERDOGAN'S A.K. PARTY HAS HELD
POWER SINCE 2002, BUT IT LOST
ITS MAJORITY IN ELECTIONS IN
ITS MAJORITY IN
ELECTIONS IN JUNE.
JUNE. THAT LEFT
TURKEY IN A KIND OF
THAT LEFT TURKEY IN A KIND OF
POLITICAL LIMBO, AS IT BATTLES
BOTH KURDISH REBELS AND ISLAMIC
BOTH KURDISH REBELS AND
ISLAMIC STATE MILITANTS.
STATE MILITANTS. AND IN
SYRIA, THERE'S WORD THAT
AND IN SYRIA, THERE'S WORD THAT
ISLAMIC STATE FORCES HAVE BLOWN
UP A ROMAN-ERA TEMPLE, THEIR
UP A ROMAN-ERA TEMPLE,
THEIR LATEST SUCH ATTACK.
LATEST SUCH ATTACK. SYRIA'S
ANTIQUITIES CHIEF SAYS
SYRIA'S ANTIQUITIES CHIEF SAYS
IT HAPPENED SUNDAY IN THE CITY
IT HAPPENED SUNDAY IN
THE CITY OF PALMYRA.
OF PALMYRA. U.N.
OFFICIALS CONDEMNED THE
U.N. OFFICIALS CONDEMNED
THE DESTRUCTION.
DESTRUCTION. KRISHNAN
GURU-MURTHY OF
KRISHNAN GURU-MURTHY OF
INDEPENDENT TELEVISION NEWS HAS
INDEPENDENT TELEVISION
NEWS HAS A REPORT.
A REPORT. >> THE ANCIENT
CITY OF PALMYRA
>> THE ANCIENT CITY OF PALMYRA
IS ONE OF THE WORLD'S MOST
IMPORTANT SULL CHIEWRL SITES AND
THE TEMPLE OF BAAL SHAMIN WAS
ONE OF ITS MOST WELL KNOWN
BUILDINGS, r DATING BACK TO 2,00
BUILDINGS, r DATING BACK TO
2,00 YEARS, FOLLOWING THE WORLD
YEARS, FOLLOWING THE WORLD
RENOWNED CURATOR, KHALED
RENOWNED CURATOR,
KHALED AL-ASAAD.
AL-ASAAD. THE
81-YEAR-OLD REFUSED TO
THE 81-YEAR-OLD REFUSED TO
REVEAL WHERE SOME TO HAVE THE
TREASURES WERE HIDDEN FOR
TREASURES WERE HIDDEN
FOR SAFEKEEPING.
SAFEKEEPING. HEAVES
BEHEADED IN THE SQUARE
HEAVES BEHEADED IN THE SQUARE
BEFORE HIS BODY WAS HUNG ON
BEFORE HIS BODY WAS
HUNG ON DISPLAY.
DISPLAY. I.S.I.S.
OCCUPIED PALMYRA IN
I.S.I.S. OCCUPIED
PALMYRA IN MAY.
MAY. THEY TOPPLED STATUTES AND
THEY TOPPLED STATUTES AND
DESTROYED ARTIFACT IN.
DESTROYED ARTIFACT IN. MARCH,
THEY DESTROYED NIMRUD AND
MARCH, THEY DESTROYED
NIMRUD AND THE RUINS.
THE RUINS. >> Woodruff:
ISLAMIC STATE
>> Woodruff: ISLAMIC STATE
MILITANTS HAVE DEFENDED THEIR
ATTACK ON ANCIENT RUINS, SAYING
ATTACK ON ANCIENT RUINS,
SAYING THEY PROMOTE IDOLATRY.
THEY PROMOTE IDOLATRY.
MEANWHILE, IN LEBANON, A GARBAGE
CRISIS TURNED INTO VIOLENT
CLASHES OVERNIGHT IN BEIRUT.
DOZENS OF POLICE AND PROTESTERS
WERE HURT WHEN ANTI-GOVERNMENT
PROTESTS DEVOLVED INTO CHAOS.
WITH THAT, THE ARMY TOOK UP
POSITIONS AROUND THE CAPITAL.
INITIALLY, THE DEMONSTRATIONS
WERE OVER TRASH THAT HAD PILED
WERE OVER TRASH THAT HAD
PILED UP FOR WEEKS.
UP FOR WEEKS. NOW, THE
CROWDS ARE CALLING FOR
NOW, THE CROWDS ARE CALLING
FOR THE GOVERNMENT TO RESIGN.
THE GOVERNMENT TO RESIGN.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, A GIANT
GROUP OF FIRES IN WASHINGTON
STATE IS NOW THE LARGEST IN THE
STATE IS NOW THE LARGEST
IN THE STATE'S HISTORY.
STATE'S HISTORY. THE
SO-CALLED OKANOGAN COMPLEX
THE SO-CALLED OKANOGAN COMPLEX
HAD BURNED ACROSS MORE THAN 400
HAD BURNED ACROSS MORE THAN
400 SQUARE MILES BY TODAY.
SQUARE MILES BY TODAY. AND,
DESPITE SOME GAINS OVER THE
AND, DESPITE SOME GAINS OVER THE
WEEKEND, THE FIRES ARE
JUST 10% CONTAINED.
CONTAINED. >> WE DO
CONTINUE TO MAKE
>> WE DO CONTINUE TO MAKE
PROGRESS BUT AGAIN, AS I SAID
EARLIER, WITH THESE FIRES, THE
ONLY WAY TO DEAL WITH THEM IS
LIKE EATING AN ELEPHANT, ONE
LIKE EATING AN ELEPHANT,
ONE BITE AT A TIME.
BITE AT A TIME. WE HAVE
A LOT LEFT TO EAT.
WE HAVE A LOT LEFT TO EAT.
>> Woodruff: WITH RESOURCES
STRETCHED THIN, OFFICIALS HAVE
CALLED ON MORE THAN 4,000
CALLED ON MORE THAN
4,000 VOLUNTEERS.
VOLUNTEERS. AND, FIRE
CREWS FROM AUSTRALIA
AND, FIRE CREWS FROM AUSTRALIA
AND NEW ZEALAND WILL BE JOINING
AND NEW ZEALAND WILL
BE JOINING THE FIGHT.
THE FIGHT. GENERAL
MOTORS' FUND TO
GENERAL MOTORS' FUND TO
COMPENSATE VICTIMS OF FAULTY
IGNITION SWITCHES HAS REJECTED
IGNITION SWITCHES HAS
REJECTED 91% OF THE CLAIMS.
91% OF THE CLAIMS. A SSW
A SSW 400 CLAIMS WERE APPROVED.
400 CLAIMS WERE APPROVED. SHE
SAID OTHERS HAD NO CLEAR
SHE SAID OTHERS HAD NO CLEAR
CONNECTION TO THE SWITCH
CONNECTION TO THE
SWITCH PROBLEM.
PROBLEM. FAMILIES WITH
SUCCESSFUL CLAIMS
FAMILIES WITH SUCCESSFUL
CLAIMS WILL RECEIVE AT LEAST
WILL RECEIVE AT
LEAST $1 MILLION.
$1 MILLION. PRESIDENT
OBAMA IS TAKING NEW
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS TAKING NEW
STEPS AIMED AT MAKING IT EASIER
STEPS AIMED AT MAKING IT
EASIER FOR PEOPLE TO INVEST IN
FOR PEOPLE TO INVEST
IN RENEWABLE ENERGY.
RENEWABLE ENERGY. THE
EXECUTIVE ACTIONS AND OTHER
THE EXECUTIVE ACTIONS AND OTHER
INITIATIVES ARE PART OF AN
EFFORT TO CUT CARBON DIOXIDE
EMISSIONS BY UP TO 28% OVER THE
EMISSIONS BY UP TO 28%
OVER THE NEXT DECADE.
NEXT DECADE. THEY
INCLUDE FINANCIAL
THEY INCLUDE FINANCIAL
INCENTIVES FOR HOUSEHOLDS TO
INCENTIVES FOR HOUSEHOLDS
TO INSTALL SOLAR PANELS AND
INSTALL SOLAR PANELS AND NEW
FUNDING FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY
NEW FUNDING FOR RENEWABLE
ENERGY RESEARCH.
RESEARCH. STILL TO
COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
INVESTORS PANIC CAUSING DRASTIC
INVESTORS PANIC CAUSING
DRASTIC DIPS IN STOCK PRICES.
DIPS IN STOCK PRICES. MORE
THAN 10,000 MIGRANTS PASS
MORE THAN 10,000 MIGRANTS PASS
THROUGH MACEDONIA AND SERBIA ON
THROUGH MACEDONIA AND SERBIA
ON THEIR WAY TO EUROPE.
THEIR WAY TO EUROPE.
AND MUCH MORE.
INTELLIGENCE AND ANALYSIS INTO
WHAT'S HAPPENING, AND WHY THE
MARKETS ARE SO VOLATILE OF LATE.
MOHAMED EL-ERIAN IS CHIEF
ECONOMIC ADVISER AT ALLIANZ, A
MULTINATIONAL FINANCIAL SERVICES
COMPANY, AND A COLUMNIST FOR
COMPANY, AND A COLUMNIST
FOR "BLOOMBERG VIEW."
"BLOOMBERG VIEW." AND,
DAVID LAMPTON IS DIRECTOR
AND, DAVID LAMPTON IS DIRECTOR
OF THE CHINA STUDIES PROGRAM AT
OF THE CHINA STUDIES PROGRAM
AT JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY'S
JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY'S
SCHOOL OF ADVANCED INTERNATIONAL
SCHOOL OF ADVANCED
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES.
STUDIES. WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH. MOHAMED
A. EL-ERIAN, LET ME
MOHAMED A. EL-ERIAN,
LET ME START WITH YOU.
START WITH YOU. SO THE
DOW WAS DOWN 1,000 LAST
SO THE DOW WAS DOWN 1,000 LAST
WEEK, ALMOST ANOTHER 600 TODAY.
WEEK, ALMOST ANOTHER 600
TODAY. WHAT IS DRIVING THIS?
WHAT IS DRIVING THIS? >> TWO
THINGS -- THE MARKET IS
>> TWO THINGS -- THE MARKET IS
TRYING TO GET TO TERMS WITH,
FIRST, LOWER GLOBAL GROWTH,
PARTICULARLY OUT OF EMERGING
MARKETS AND CHINA AND, SECOND,
THE MARKET IS WORRIED THE
CENTRAL BANKS HAVE RUN OUT OF
CENTRAL BANKS HAVE RUN
OUT OF AMMUNITION.
AMMUNITION. SO PUT
THESE TWO THINGS
SO PUT THESE TWO THINGS
TOGETHER, AND THEN INVESTORS ARE
REPRICING THE MARKETONCE YOU ST,
THEN THE TRIGGER OF ALL SORTS OF
THEN THE TRIGGER OF
ALL SORTS OF THINGS.
THINGS. PEOPLE HAVE
TO SELL SO THEY SELL
PEOPLE HAVE TO SELL SO THEY SELL
TO WINNERS AND LOSERS, THEY'RE
JUST TRYING TO RAISE CASH.
THEN YOU GET SPREADING MELEE
THROUGHOUT THE GROWING MARKET.
THROUGHOUT THE GROWING
MARKET. THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE.
THAT'S WHAT WE HAVE. >>
Woodruff: HAVEN'T INVESTORS
>> Woodruff: HAVEN'T INVESTORS
KNOWN CHINA WAS IN TROUBLE AND
HAD TIME TO GET PREPARED FOR
HAD TIME TO GET
PREPARED FOR THIS?
THIS? >> YOU ALWAYS
THINK MARKETS WILL
>> YOU ALWAYS THINK MARKETS WILL
GET PREPARED BURKS PEOPLE LIKE
GET PREPARED BURKS PEOPLE
LIKE STAYING IN THE TRADE.
STAYING IN THE TRADE. WHY?
WHY? BECAUSE, FOR
YEARS, NOW, WE HAVE
BECAUSE, FOR YEARS, NOW, WE HAVE
BEEN ABLE TO SUSTAIN PRICES WELL
BEEN ABLE TO SUSTAIN PRICES
WELL ABOVE FUNDAMENTALS BECAUSE
ABOVE FUNDAMENTALS BECAUSE
CENTRAL BANKS HAVE BEEN THE
MARKETS' BEST FRIENDS, SO
MARKETS HAVE STARTED TO RELY ON
CENTRAL BANKS ALWAYS COMING IN..
IT'S NOT SOMETHING OUT OF GREECE
AND EUROPE WHERE THE EUROPEAN
CENTRAL BANK CAN INTERVENE, IT'S
NOT CONCERNS ABOUT THE FED OR
ECONOMY, IT'S CONCERNS ABOUT
EMERGING MARKETS AND INVESTORS
HAVE LESS FAITH THAT THE CENTRAL
BANKS OF THE U.S. AND EUROPE ARE
GOING TO BE ABLE TO INTERVENE.
>> Woodruff: SO DAVID LAMPTON,
LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT'S GOING ON
LET'S TALK ABOUT WHAT'S
GOING ON IN CHINA.
IN CHINA. WE HAVE
BEEN WATCHING UPS AND
WE HAVE BEEN WATCHING UPS
AND DOWNS OVER THERE.
DOWNS OVER THERE.
WHAT ELSE HAPPENING?
WHAT ELSE HAPPENING? PEOPLE
ARE USED TO SEEING THE
PEOPLE ARE USED TO SEEING THE
GOVERNMENT OF CHINA CONTROL
GOVERNMENT OF CHINA
CONTROL EVERYTHING.
EVERYTHING. WHAT'S HAPPENED NOW?
WHAT'S HAPPENED NOW? >> I
THINK YOU HAVE A NUMBER OF
>> I THINK YOU HAVE
A NUMBER OF THINGS.
THINGS. FIRST OF ALL,
THE CHINESE MARKET
FIRST OF ALL, THE CHINESE MARKET
HAS HAD AN MOST UNBELIEVABLE
YEAR, AND IT'S GONE UP 130% ON
ONE EXCHANGE, 170 ON ANOTHER,
OVER 200% ON ANOTHER, AND SO,
COMMON SENSE, ULTIMATELY, IS
GOING TO PREVAIL, PRICING RATIOS
ARE ANYWHERE FROM 32 TO 80,
WHERE IT MIGHT BE 13 TO 16 IN
WHERE IT MIGHT BE 13
TO 16 IN THE U.S.
THE U.S. SO I THINK
THE CHINESE MARKET
SO I THINK THE CHINESE
MARKET WAS JUST UNBELIEVABLY
WAS JUST UNBELIEVABLY
OVERPRICED.
OVERPRICED. SECONDLY,
BAD NUMBERS STARTED
SECONDLY, BAD NUMBERS STARTED
COMING INTO THE CHINESE, EXPORTS
AND IMPORTS DROPPED 8% IN JULY.
THIS NOT ONLY PANICKED CHINESE
EXPORTERS AND PEOPLE IN THE
IMPORT BUSINESS, BULL, ALSO,
CHINA IS THE BIGGEST TRADE
PARTNER FOR MANY COUNTRIES IN
PARTNER FOR MANY
COUNTRIES IN ASIA.
ASIA. SO I THINK CHINA
HAS BRICKED THE
SO I THINK CHINA HAS
BRICKED THE BUBBLE.
BUBBLE. ALSO, I THINK
THERE IS SOMETHING
ALSO, I THINK THERE IS SOMETHING
VERY FUNDAMENTAL GOING ON
POLITICALLY AND THAT IS IN THE
LAST COUPLE OF YEARS, ALL WE'VE
SHOWN ABOUT THE NEW LEADER XI
JINPING IS HOW STRONG A LEADER
HE IS, AND I THINK PEOPLE ARE
BEGINNING TO SEE THAT GOVERNING
CHINA IN THE 21st CENTURY IS
DIFFERENT THAN 40 YEARS AGO, AND
I THINK THEY'RE BEGINNING TO ASK
HOW CAPABLE IS THIS LEADERSHIP
WITH DEALING WITH A MUCH MORE
INTEGRATED, INDEPENDENT ECONOMY?
AND PART OF THIS, I THINK, IS A
AND PART OF THIS, I THINK, IS
A REDUCTION IN SOMEWHAT IN
REDUCTION IN SOMEWHAT IN
CONFIDENCE IN THE LEADERSHIP.
>> Woodruff: MOHAMED A.
EL-ERIAN, IF THAT'S THE KIND OF
EL-ERIAN, IF THAT'S THE KIND
OF UNCERTAINTY ABOUT WHAT'S
UNCERTAINTY ABOUT WHAT'S
HAPPENED IN CHINA AND WHAT THE
LEEPED IS CAPABLE OF, WHAT DOES
THAT MEAN INVESTORS SHOULD
THAT MEAN INVESTORS
SHOULD THINK?
THINK? DOES THAT
MEAN WE'LL SEE EVEN
DOES THAT MEAN WE'LL SEE EVEN
MORE VOLATILITY IN THE DAYS TO
MORE VOLATILITY IN
THE DAYS TO COME?
COME? >> WE'LL
CERTAINLY SEE MORE
>> WE'LL CERTAINLY SEE MORE
VOLATILITY BECAUSE THE MARKET
HAS TO ADDRESS TO A NEW
PARADIGM, A NEW REALITY, AND
IT'S DOING THIS WITH LESLIE
QUIDDITY -- LESS LIQUIDITY.
IT HAS LESS WILD SWINGS.
IT HAS LESS WILD SWINGS. DURING
THE DAY WE TRAVELED BACK
DURING THE DAY WE TRAVELED BACK
AND FORTH 5,000 POINTS ON THE
DOW, THAT'S AN ENORMOUS DISTANCE
DOW, THAT'S AN ENORMOUS
DISTANCE TO TRAVEL IN ONE DAY.
TO TRAVEL IN ONE DAY. THE
REASON WHY IS THERE ISN'T
THE REASON WHY IS THERE
ISN'T ENOUGH LIQUIDITY.
ENOUGH LIQUIDITY. EVERY
TIME A BUYER COMES IN TO
EVERY TIME A BUYER COMES IN TO
RALLY, THE SELLERS GO THE OTHER
WAY, AND I THINK THAT TYPE OF
VOLATILITY WILL CONTINUE UNTIL
THE MARKET FINDS ITS FOOTING.
>> Woodruff: DOES IT SAY
SOMETHING ABOUT THE UNDERLYING
STRENGTH OF THE U.S. ECONOMY?
>> SO THE BIGGEST THREAT, AND I
THINK IT'S A RISK SCENARIO, NOT
THINK IT'S A RISK SCENARIO,
NOT A BASELINE, IS THAT THE
A BASELINE, IS THAT THE
SPILLOVER FROM WEAK, GLOBAL
GROWTH TO THE MARKET THEN SPILLS
GROWTH TO THE MARKET THEN
SPILLS BACK TO THE U.S.
BACK TO THE U.S. WHY?
WHY? BECAUSE PEOPLE GET MORE
BECAUSE PEOPLE GET MORE
CAUTIOUS, THEY WORRY ABOUT THEIR
CAUTIOUS, THEY WORRY ABOUT
THEIR 401K, THEY SPEND LESS.
401K, THEY SPEND LESS.
THAT'S THE BIG RISK.
THAT'S THE BIG RISK. I
DON'T THINK IT'S GOING TO
I DON'T THINK IT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN JUST YET, BUT THE U.S.
HAS TO COPE WITH A SLOWER GLOBAL
HAS TO COPE WITH A
SLOWER GLOBAL ECONOMY.
ECONOMY. WE'LL BE
SELLING LESS GOODS TO
WE'LL BE SELLING LESS GOODS
TO CHINA AND OTHER AMERICAN
CHINA AND OTHER
AMERICAN COUNTRIES.
COUNTRIES. IT'S NOT
JUST CHINA, JUDY.
IT'S NOT JUST CHINA, JUDY.
IT'S CHINA, BRAZIL, INDONESIA,
IT'S CHINA, BRAZIL,
INDONESIA, TURKEY, RUSSIA.
TURKEY, RUSSIA. THERE IS
A GENERALIZED SLOWDOWN
THERE IS A GENERALIZED SLOWDOWN
IN THE EMERGING WORLD.
IN THE EMERGING WORLD. >>
Woodruff: TO THE EXTENT
>> Woodruff: TO THE EXTENT
CHINA IS A FACTOR, DAVID
LAMPTON, HOW ARE WE TO
LAMPTON, HOW ARE WE
TO UNDERSTAND THAT?
UNDERSTAND THAT? WHO'S
PULLING THE STRINGS AND
WHO'S PULLING THE STRINGS
AND MAKING DECISIONS?
MAKING DECISIONS? WHAT
SHOULD WE BE LOOKING FOR
WHAT SHOULD WE BE LOOKING
FOR OUT OF CHINA?
OUT OF CHINA? >> WELL,
I THINK ONE OF THE
>> WELL, I THINK ONE OF THE
PROBLEMS IS THE CURRENT LEADER
XI JINPING ACTUALLY CENTRALIZED
POLICY TO A RATHER EXTENSIVE
POLICY TO A RATHER
EXTENSIVE DEGREE.
DEGREE. WHEREAS BEFORE
WHEN WE WANTED TO
WHEREAS BEFORE WHEN WE WANTED TO
KNOW WHAT S GWAOING ON IN THE
CHINESE ECONOMY WE MIGHT TALK TO
THE PREMIER, THERE WERE PEOPLE
WE TALKED TO IN WHOM WE HAD
WE TALKED TO IN WHOM
WE HAD CONFIDENCE.
CONFIDENCE. NOW HE'S
PUTTING IN A NEW TEAM.
NOW HE'S PUTTING IN A NEW TEAM.
WE'RE NOT SURE WHO THEY ARE IN
THE ECONOMIC REALM, WE KNOW MORE
THE ACTORS IN THE POLITICAL
REALM, BUT IN GENERAL I WOULD
SAY THE CHINESE LEADERSHIP IS
LESS TRANSPARENT, WE HAVE LESS
CONFIDENCE HOW THEY'RE MAKING
DECISIONS AND THEIR INITIAL
RESPONSE TO THE DRAMATIC FALL
LAST WEEK IN THE STOCK MARKET
BECAUSE REALLY QUITE REVERSION
BACK TO THE KIND OF PLANNED
ECONOMY MEASURES YOU WOULD SEE.
ECONOMY MEASURES YOU WOULD
SEE. SO THEY SEEMED TO HAVE AN
SO THEY SEEMED TO HAVE AN
IMPULSE TOWARDS REFORM, BUT WHEN
THINGS GET TOUGH, THEY FALL BACK
ON THE MORE PLANNED ECONOMY,
NON-MARKET FEATURES THAT THEY
NON-MARKET FEATURES
THAT THEY HAVE.
HAVE. SO NON-TRANSPARENCY AND
SO NON-TRANSPARENCY AND
INCONSISTENT POLICY, I WOULD
SAY, IS THE FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEM.
>> Woodruff: IF THAT'S THE
CASE IN CHINA, MOHAMED A.
EL-ERIAN, HOW ARE INVESTORS
EVERYWHERE TO READ THAT?
EVERYWHERE TO READ THAT? >>
SO THEY WORRY ABOUT CORPORATE
>> SO THEY WORRY ABOUT CORPORATE
PROFITS, THEY WORRY ABOUT THE
ABILITY OF COMPANIES TO CONTINUE
TO BUY BACK THEIR STOCK, AND
THEY REPRICE THE MARKET.
THEY REPRICE THE MARKET. AND
THIS IS AN ISSUE, JUDY,
AND THIS IS AN ISSUE, JUDY,
RELATED TO THE FUNDAMENTAL
ASPECT, WHICH IS, FOR YEARS,
NOW, MARKETS HAVE BEEN VALUED
WELL ABOVE WHAT'S WARRANTED BY
FUNDAMENTALS, AND BY THAT I MEAN
WHAT'S WARRANTED BY THE ABILITY
OF THE GLOBAL ECONOMY TO GROW.
PRICES HAVE BEEN UP HERE.
PRICES HAVE BEEN UP HERE. THE
ECONOMIC CONDITIONS HAVE
THE ECONOMIC CONDITIONS HAVE
BEEN DOWN HERE, AND THE
DIFFERENCE HAS BEEN TH HAS BEENE
LIQUIDITY INJECTED BY CENTRAL
BANKS AND NOW WE'RE GETTING
CONVERSION OF PRICES BACK ABOUT
CONVERSION OF PRICES BACK
ABOUT WHAT WOULD BE IN THOSE
WHAT WOULD BE IN
THOSE CONDITIONS.
CONDITIONS. >> Woodruff:
THERE HAS BEEN
>> Woodruff: THERE HAS BEEN ALL
THE EXPECTATION THE FEDERAL
ALL THE EXPECTATION THE FEDERAL
RESERVE WILL RAISE INTEREST
RATES STARTING IN SEPTEMBER.
HOW DOES ALL THIS AFFECT THAT?
>> I THINK IT MEANS THAT IT'S
VERY UNLIKELY THAT THE FED WILL
VERY UNLIKELY THAT THE FED
WILL RAISE INTEREST RATES IN
RAISE INTEREST RATES
IN SEPTEMBER.
SEPTEMBER. IT'S A
VERY BIG RISK TO TAKE
IT'S A VERY BIG RISK TO TAKE
RIGHT NOW TO FUEL FINANCIAL
INSTABILITY FURTHER.
SO THEY WILL WAIT.
SO THEY WILL WAIT. BY
DECEMBER, THERE WILL BE
BY DECEMBER, THERE WILL BE
CLARITY ON ONE OF TWO THINGS --
HAS THIS FINANCIAL INSTABILITY
REALLY IMPACTED CONSUMER
SPENDING AND, THEREFORE, CAUSED
A HEAD WIND TO THE ECONOMY?
OR ALTERNATIVELY, LET'S NOT
FORGET THAT PART OF THE SELLOFF
IS IN THE COMMODITY COMPLEX,
PUSHING INTEREST RATES LOWER ON
PUSHING INTEREST RATES
LOWER ON GOVERNMENT DEALS.
GOVERNMENT DEALS. SO THE
OTHER SIDE OF THIS IS
SO THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS IS
THAT THE ECONOMY BENEFITS FROM
LOWER OIL PRICES AND LOWER
LOWER OIL PRICES AND
LOWER INTEREST RATES.
INTEREST RATES. SO THE
QUESTION IS STILL ON THE
SO THE QUESTION IS STILL ON THE
TABLE BECAUSE OF THIS COMPETING
FORCE IN THE U.S. ECONOMY, BUT I
FORCE IN THE U.S. ECONOMY,
BUT I IN ISN'T IT IS HIGHLY
IN ISN'T IT IS HIGHLY UNLIKELY
-- IN SEPTEMBER I THINK
UNLIKELY -- IN SEPTEMBER I THINK
IT'S UNLIKELY THE FED WILL RAISE
INTEREST RATES R. YOU LOOKING
FOR STABILITY IN THE ECONOMY?
>> ON THIS DAY OF SUCH
VOLATILITY, IT'S WISE TO REMINDi
OURSELVES THERE ARE POSITIVE
FUNDAMENTALS IN THE CHINESE
FUNDAMENTALS IN THE
CHINESE ECONOMY.
ECONOMY. THEY HAVE
ANOTHER 3 MILLION
THEY HAVE ANOTHER 3 MILLION
PEOPLE TO URBANIZE.
PEOPLE TO URBANIZE. WAGES
ARE GOING UP AND PEOPLE
WAGES ARE GOING UP AND PEOPLE
ARE GETTING EMPLOYED AND, SO,
THE CHINESE ECONOMY HASN'T HAD A
MELTDOWN AS SEVERE AS TODAY'S
NUMBERS MIGHT SUGGEST.
NUMBERS MIGHT SUGGEST. >>
Woodruff: SO KEEP LOOKING
>> Woodruff: SO KEEP
LOOKING FOR THE POSITIVE.
FOR THE POSITIVE. >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. >> Woodruff:
DAVID LAMPTON,
>> Woodruff: DAVID LAMPTON,
MOHAMED A. EL-ERIAN, WE THANK
MOHAMED A. EL-ERIAN,
WE THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Woodruff: FOLLOWING LAST
WEEK'S TEAR GASSING OF MIGRANTS
AT THE GREEK BORDER, MACEDONIAN
AUTHORITIES HAVE BEGUN ALLOWING
THOSE SEEKING SAFETY TO PASS
THROUGH THE COUNTRY AGAIN AS
THEY TRAVEL NORTH TO SERBIA AND
THEY TRAVEL NORTH TO
SERBIA AND BEYOND.
BEYOND. LINDSEY
HILSUM OF INDEPENDENT
LINDSEY HILSUM OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS CAUGHT UP WITH A
TELEVISION NEWS CAUGHT UP WITH
A GROUP OF MIGRANTS ON THAT
GROUP OF MIGRANTS ON THAT
JOURNEY AND REPORTS ON THEIR
STORIES AS THEY RODE THE RAILS.
>> Reporter: NIGHT FALLS, BUT
>> Reporter: NIGHT FALLS,
BUT THEY KEEP ON WALKING.
THEY KEEP ON WALKING.
ONLY A FEW MORE YARDS AND
THEY'LL HAVE LEFT GREECE BEHIND.
THEY'LL BE IN MACEDONIA.
BY MORNING THEY'RE STILL
BY MORNING THEY'RE
STILL WALKING.
WALKING. WORD HAS
TRAVELED BACK DOWN THE
WORD HAS TRAVELED BACK DOWN THE
LINE: GO TO GEVGELIJA STATION.
SOME HAVE SPENT THE NIGHT HERE.
THEY'VE SEEN WORSE PLACES ON
THEY'VE SEEN WORSE
PLACES ON THEIR ODYSSEY.
THEIR ODYSSEY. IT'S
DIRTY, BUT THEY DO THEIR
IT'S DIRTY, BUT
THEY DO THEIR BEST.
BEST. THE MACEDONIANS
HAVE MANAGED TO
THE MACEDONIANS HAVE MANAGED TO
PUT ORDER INTO CHAOS, DESPITE
THE SWELLING NUMBERS.
THE SWELLING NUMBERS. SYRIANS
AND OTHERS WITH SMALL
SYRIANS AND OTHERS WITH SMALL
CHILDREN ARE GIVEN PRIORITY.
EXTRA TRAINS HAVE BEEN LAID ON
TO TAKE THEM TO THE NEXT BORDER:
TO TAKE THEM TO THE NEXT
BORDER: WITH SERBIA.
WITH SERBIA. IT'S
110 MILES AWAY.
IT'S 110 MILES AWAY. A
FOUR-HOUR JOURNEY, EASY
A FOUR-HOUR JOURNEY, EASY
COMPARED TO WHAT THEY'VE BEEN
COMPARED TO WHAT THEY'VE
BEEN THROUGH BEFORE.
THROUGH BEFORE. THEY'VE
PAID 10 EUROS PER
THEY'VE PAID 10 EUROS PER
TICKET, LIKE ANY OTHER
TICKET, LIKE ANY
OTHER PASSENGER.
PASSENGER. WHERE ARE YOU FROM?
WHERE ARE YOU FROM? FROM SYRIA?
FROM SYRIA? FROM WHICH PLACE?
FROM WHICH PLACE? >>
OM AFRLEPPO AND AFRIN.
>> OM AFRLEPPO AND AFRIN.
>> Reporter: THE U.N. HIGH
COMMISSION FOR REFUGEES SAYS
7,000 TRAVELED TO SERBIA THIS
7,000 TRAVELED TO SERBIA
THIS PAST WEEKEND.
PAST WEEKEND. MANY
PEOPLE ON THIS TRAIN ARE
MANY PEOPLE ON THIS TRAIN ARE
GOING FROM SYRIA TO GERMANY, SO
THEY'RE ABOUT HALF WAY THROUGH
THEIR JOURNEY AND THIS IS THE
POINT WHERE THEY'RE FULL OF
POINT WHERE THEY'RE
FULL OF HOPE.
HOPE. THEY'RE ON THE
MOVE, THEY THINK
THEY'RE ON THE MOVE, THEY THINK
THEY'VE LEFT THE WORST BEHIND
THEY'VE LEFT THE
WORST BEHIND THEM.
THEM. GERMANY HAS
SAID IT'LL TAKE
GERMANY HAS SAID IT'LL TAKE
800,000 PEOPLE THIS YEAR.
800,000 PEOPLE THIS YEAR. THAT'S
A LOT, BUT THERE ARE MANY
THAT'S A LOT, BUT THERE ARE MANY
MORE TRAINS BEHIND THIS ONE.
THEY CAN'T TAKE EVERYONE AND
THERE ARE THOUSANDS MORE PEOPLE
THERE ARE THOUSANDS
MORE PEOPLE ON THE WAY.
ON THE WAY. SOME ARE
FLEEING ALEPPO AND
SOME ARE FLEEING ALEPPO AND
BASHAR AL ASSAD, OTHERS RAQQA
AND DAESH, THE ISLAMIC STATE.
WHAT DIFFERENCE DOES IT MAKE?
>> HARD SITUATION IN SYRIA.
>> HARD SITUATION IN SYRIA. NO
POWER, NO WATER, NO INTERNET,
NO POWER, NO WATER, NO
INTERNET, NO ANY HELP FOR US.
NO ANY HELP FOR US. WE
CAN'T STAY IN SYRIA.
WE CAN'T STAY IN SYRIA. BASHAR
AL ASSAD ATTACK US EVERY
BASHAR AL ASSAD
ATTACK US EVERY DAY.
DAY. MORNING, EVERYTIME.
MORNING, EVERYTIME. OUR
BABY SO AFRD FRAIOM FLIGHT
OUR BABY SO AFRD
FRAIOM FLIGHT SOUND.
SOUND. >> Reporter:
OF THE BOMBS? BOMBY
>> Reporter: OF THE BOMBS? BOMBY
DAY, EVERY DAY SO WE LEFT.
DAY, EVERY DAY SO WE LEFT. >> (
translated): DAESH--
>> (translated):
DAESH-- BEHEADING, THEY CUT OFF
HANDS
BEHEADING, THEY CUT OFF
HANDS FOR ANY REASON.
FOR ANY REASON. THEY'LL
ALWAYS FIND AN EXCUSE TO
THEY'LL ALWAYS FIND AN EXCUSE
TO KILL ANY HUMAN BEING.
KILL ANY HUMAN BEING. THEY
HAVE NO PROBLEM IN KILLING
THEY HAVE NO PROBLEM IN
KILLING EVEN CLDREHIN.
EVEN CLDREHIN. YOUNG
CHILDREN HAVE BEEN
YOUNG CHILDREN HAVE BEEN
SLAUGHTERED, FLOGGED, EVEN
SLAUGHTERED,
FLOGGED, EVEN WOMEN.
WOMEN. DAESHAS H
NO MERCY AT ALL.
DAESHAS H NO MERCY AT ALL.
THEY HAVE NOTHING TO DO WITH
RELIGION OR ISLAM OR HUMANITY.
>> Reporter: IT'S THE SLEEP OF
TOTAL EXHAUSTION, BORN OF WEEKS
ON THE ROAD AND YEARS OF WAR.
DREAMING, MAYBE, OF THE WAY LIFE
USED TO BE, BEFORE THE BOMBS AND
THE MEN IN BLACK MASKS, WHEN YOU
COULD LIVE AND WORK AND BRING UP
COULD LIVE AND WORK AND BRING
UP YOUR CHILDREN IN SYRIA.
YOUR CHILDREN IN SYRIA.
DREAMING OF THE WAY LIFE COULD
YET BE IF GERMANY MAKES GOOD ON
ITS PROMISE OR AUSTRIA LETS THEM
ITS PROMISE OR AUSTRIA
LETS THEM IN.
IN. NOT EVERY TRAVELER IS FROM
NOT EVERY TRAVELER
IS FROM SYRIA.
SYRIA. VIDA'S HERE
WITH HER BROTHER.
VIDA'S HERE WITH HER BROTHER.
SHE PRESENTED A TV SPORTS
PROGRAM BACK HOME IN AFGHANISTAN
UNTIL THE DEATH THREATS FROM
UNTIL THE DEATH THREATS FROM OSE
THWHO HATE WOMEN BECAME TOO
OSE THWHO HATE WOMEN
BECAME TOO MUCH.
MUCH. >> ONE DAY I
SAW VERY, VERY BAD
>> ONE DAY I SAW VERY,
VERY BAD THINGS.
THINGS. THEY CAME AND
FIGHT, EVEN THEY
THEY CAME AND FIGHT, EVEN THEY
WANT TO KILL ME WITH KNIFE.
>> I'M JUST ON A TRANSIT.
THAT'S WHY I'M ON THIS TRAIN.
>> Reporter: T NIGHEERIANS LOST
>> Reporter: T NIGHEERIANS
LOST THEIR JOBS AS CLNERSEA IN
THEIR JOBS AS CLNERSEA IN
ISTANBUL SO THEY'RE MOVING ON.
ECONOMIC MIGRANTS, THAT'S WHAT
ECONOMIC MIGRANTS, THAT'S
WHAT THEY'LL BE CALLED.
THEY'LL BE CALLED. BOTTOM
OF THE HIERARCHY OF
BOTTOM OF THE HIERARCHY
OF DESPERATION.
DESPERATION. REFUGEES,
MIGRANTS, EUROPEAN
REFUGEES, MIGRANTS, EUROPEAN
POLITICIANS CALL THEM A BURDEN.
BUT MAYBE THERE'S ANOTH WAYER TO
BUT MAYBE THERE'S ANOTH
WAYER TO LOOK AT IT.
LOOK AT IT. WHY DO YOU
THINK GERMANY SHOULD
WHY DO YOU THINK GERMANY SHOULD
AGREE TO LET YOU COME IN?
>> BECAUSE, I DON'T KNOW.
BECAUSE THEY HAVE A LOT OF OLD
PEOPLE AND THEY NEED YOUNG
PEOPLE AND THEY NEED
YOUNG PEOPLE, I THINK.
PEOPLE, I THINK. >>
Reporter: WE'RE THERE, BUT
>> Reporter: WE'RE
THERE, BUT NOT QUITE.
NOT QUITE. STILL ANOTHER
MILE OR SO WALK TO
STILL ANOTHER MILE OR
SO WALK TO THE BORDER.
THE BORDER. IT'S HOT
BUT THEY KEEP GOING,
IT'S HOT BUT THEY KEEP
GOING, EVEN THE KIDS.
EVEN THE KIDS. THOSE WHO
CAN'T YET WALK, OR NOT
THOSE WHO CAN'T YET WALK, OR
NOT AS WELL AS THEY USED TO.
AS WELL AS THEY USED TO.
WHICH TOWN, ALEPPO? HALAB?
WHICH TOWN, ALEPPO?
HALAB? >> IDLIB.
>> IDLIB. >> Reporter:
IDLIB, IDLIB
>> Reporter: IDLIB, IDLIB THE
BORDER IS SOMEWHERE IN THE
THE BORDER IS SOMEWHERE
IN THE FIELD.
FIELD. NO ONE KNOWS WHEN THEY'VE
NO ONE KNOWS WHEN
THEY'VE CROSSED IT.
CROSSED IT. BUT ON THE
OTHER SIDE OF THE
BUT ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE
HILL, THE SERBIAN POLICE ARE
HILL, THE SERBIAN
POLICE ARE WAITING.
WAITING. THEY'RE
POLITE AND WELCOMING.
THEY'RE POLITE AND WELCOMING.
23,000 PEOPLE HAVE ENTERED
SERBIA THIS WAY IN THE LAST
TWO WEEKS, 90,000 THIS YEAR.
WEEKS, 90,000 THIS YEAR. BUT
THIS IS JUST A WAY STATION.
BUT THIS IS JUST A WAY STATION.
THERE'S A LONG ROAD AHEAD
THROUGH HUNGARY WHERE THE
WELCOME IS NOT SO WARM.
IT'S THE SUMMER OF MASS
IT'S THE SUMMER OF
MASS MIGRATION.
MIGRATION. THOSE WHOM
GEOGRAPHY CONDEMNED
THOSE WHOM GEOGRAPHY CONDEMNED
TO WAR HAVE COME TO EUROPE, AND
EUROPEAN POLITICIANS HAVE TURNED
EUROPEAN POLITICIANS
HAVE TURNED AWAY.
>> Woodruff: STAY WITH US,
COMING UP ON THE NEWSHOUR:
WILL PLANS TO PROTECT NEW
ORLEANS FOR THE NEXT HUNDRED
YEARS STAND UP TO FUTURE
YEARS STAND UP TO
FUTURE HURRICANES?
HURRICANES? AND, RIDING
OUT KATRINA: THE
AND, RIDING OUT KATRINA: THE
STORY OF THE RURAL POOR, WHO
STORY OF THE RURAL POOR,
WHO COULD NOT ESCAPE.
COULD NOT ESCAPE. THEN, THE
WEEK AHEAD IN POLITICS
THEN, THE WEEK AHEAD IN POLITICS
WITH AMY WALTER AND TAMARA
WITH AMY WALTER
AND TAMARA KEITH.
KEITH. PLUS, BA
PANBYDA TWINS BORN AT
PLUS, BA PANBYDA TWINS
BORN AT THE NATIONAL ZOO.
THE NATIONAL ZOO. NOW TO
KATRINA TEN YEARS LATER.
NOW TO KATRINA TEN YEARS LATER.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM LAUNCHES OUR
SERIES WITH A LOOK AT HOW THE
CITY OF NEW ORLEANS HAS REBUILT
ITS DEFENSES IN AREAS LIKE THE
HARD-HID LOWER NINTH WARD AND
PREPARATION FOR THE NEXT STORM,
PREPARATION FOR THE NEXT
STORM, WHEN AND IF IT HITS.
WHEN AND IF IT HITS. >> BY
MOST ACCOUNTS, TEN YEARS
>> BY MOST ACCOUNTS, TEN YEARS
AFTER SUFFERING A NEAR MORTAL
BLOW FROM HURCANERI KATRINA,
NEW ORLEANS IS BLOOMING.
NEW ORLEANS IS BLOOMING. (MUSIC)
(MUSIC) THE ECONOMY
IS THRIVING, THE
THE ECONOMY IS THRIVING, THE
TOURISTS, NEW BUSINESSES AND NEW
RESIDENTS ALL FLOCKING HERE.
MITCH LANDRIEU WAS NEW ORLEANS
MITCH LANDRIEU WAS
NEW ORLEANS MAYOR.
MAYOR. >> WE HAVE COMPLETELY NEW
>> WE HAVE COMPLETELY NEW
REDESIGNED EDUCATION AND
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS AND A LEVY
PROTECTION SYSTEM NOBODY THOUGHT
YOU COULD EVER HAVE AND IT'S ONE
OF THE GREAT TURNAROUND STORIES
THE COUNTRY'S SEEN IN A VERY
THE COUNTRY'S SEEN IN A
VERY LONG PERIOD OF TIME.
LONG PERIOD OF TIME.
>> Reporter: BUT IS
>> Reporter: BUT IS NEW
ORLEANS SAFE FROM THE NEXT
NEW ORLEANS SAFE
FROM THE NEXT STORM?
STORM? IF ANOTHER
BIG HURRICANE CAME
IF ANOTHER BIG HURRICANE CAME
CHARGING FROM THE NORTH WOULD
CHARGING FROM THE NORTH
WOULD THE DEFENSES HOLD UP?
THE DEFENSES HOLD UP? >> THE
HURRICANE PROTECTION THAT
>> THE HURRICANE PROTECTION THAT
EXISTED WAS A SYSTEM IN NAME
EXISTED WAS A SYSTEM
IN NAME ONLY.
ONLY. >> Reporter:
COL. RICK HANSEN
>> Reporter: COL. RICK HANSEN
RUNS THE U.S. ARMY CORPS OF
ENGINEERS IN NEW ORLEANS.
>> WHAT'S BUILT IS THE BEST
LEVEL OF STORM REDUCTION THE
LEVEL OF STORM REDUCTION
THE CITY EVER HAD.
CITY EVER HAD. >>
Brangham: TAXPAYERS SPENT
>> Brangham: TAXPAYERS SPENT
MORE THAN $14 BILLION TO
MORE THAN $14 BILLION
TO STRENGTHEN THE CITY.
STRENGTHEN THE CITY. FLOOD
WALLS, NEW PUMPS AND
FLOOD WALLS, NEW PUMPS AND
FLOODGATES ARE INSTALLED,
UPGRADED THE LARGE EARTHEN
LEVIES AND BUILT THE GREAT WALL
OF NEW ORLEANS, A TWO-MILE LONG
STRUCTURE ON THE EASTERN EDGE OF
STRUCTURE ON THE EASTERN
EDGE OF NEW ORLEANS.
NEW ORLEANS. IT HAS
MASSIVE CLOSEABLE GATES
IT HAS MASSIVE CLOSEABLE GATES
TO BLOCK SURGING STORM WATERS
AND, THE LIKYE TO BOAST, IT HAS
ENOUGH STEEL INSIDE TO BUILD
ENOUGH STEEL INSIDE TO
BUILD EIGHT EIFFEL TOWERS.
EIGHT EIFFEL TOWERS. >>
THIS IS THE FIRST LINE OF
>> THIS IS THE FIRST LINE OF
DEFENSE FOR FLOW REDUCTION.
WE'RE TAKING THE FIGHT TO THE
WE'RE TAKING THE
FIGHT TO THE STORM.
STORM. 133 MILES OF
INTIGRATED LEVIES,
133 MILES OF INTIGRATED LEVIES,
FLOOD WALLS, PUMP STATIONS AND
GATED STRUCTURES AND IT'S
DESIGNED TO DEFEND AGAINST A
100-YEAR STORM SURGE EVENT OR A
STORM SURGE ENVIRONMENT THAT HAS
A 1% CHANCE OF OCCURRING IN ANY
A 1% CHANCE OF OCCURRING
IN ANY GIVEN YEAR.
GIVEN YEAR. >>
Brangham: THESE NEW
>> Brangham: THESE NEW
PROTECTIONS HAVE BEEN TESTED BY
SEVERAL LESSER HURRICANES, UNDER
THE 100 YEAR STANDARD, INCLUDING
HURRICANE ISAAC THREE YEARS AGO
AND THE SYSTEM HELD UP WELL WITH
NO MAJOR FLOODING INSIDE THT
NO MAJOR FLOODING
INSIDE THT CITY.
CITY. BUT SOME, LIKE
BERRY, POINT OUT
BUT SOME, LIKE BERRY, POINT OUT
THAT THE STANDARD TO WHICH ALL
NEW ORLEANS PROTECTIONS WERE
BUILT IS CONSIDERED QUITE LOW.
>> THE CITY HAS GOT AN GOOD
SYSTEM THAT WILL PROVIDE THE
PROTECTION PROMISED, WHICH IS
SO-CALLED 100-YEAR PROTECTION.
THE PROBLEM IS THAT STANDARD
SOUNDS GREAT, IT'S REALLY THE
LOWEST STANDARD IN THE DEVELOPED
LOWEST STANDARD IN
THE DEVELOPED WORLD.
WORLD. >> Reporter:
BARRY WROTE "THE
>> Reporter: BARRY WROTE "THE
RISING TIDE" ABOUT THE 1927
MISSISSIPPI FLOOD AND RECENTLY
SERVED ON THE BOARD OVERSEEING
FLOOD PROTECTIONS IN MUCH OF
FLOOD PROTECTIONS IN
MUCH OF NEW ORLEANS.
NEW ORLEANS. HE SAYS
THE 100-YEAR STANDARD
HE SAYS THE 100-YEAR STANDARD
ISN'T REALLY ENOUGH PROTECT
ISN'T REALLY ENOUGH
PROTECT THE CITY.
THE CITY. >> FLOOD
EXPERTS PRETTY MUCH
>> FLOOD EXPERTS PRETTY MUCH
EVERYWHERE AND INSIDE FEMA AND
THE CORPS OF ENGINEERS AGREED AT
THE CORPS OF ENGINEERS
AGREED AT THE TIME THAT ANY
THE TIME THAT ANY
DENSELY-POPULATED AREAS LIKE
NEW ORLEANS WOULD REQUIRE AT
LEAST 500-YEAR PROTECTION.
>> Brangham: BUT 500 YEAR
PROTECTION WHICH MEANS BUILDING
DEFENSES TO GUARD AGAINST MUCH
MORE SEVERE STORMS WORSE THAN
KATRINA WAS NEVER MANDATED BY
KATRINA WAS NEVER
MANDATED BY CONGRESS.
CONGRESS. THERE IS
ANOTHER CONCERN WHEN IE
THERE IS ANOTHER CONCERN WHEN IE
IS CRUMBLING INTO THE SEA AT AN
IS CRUMBLING INTO THE SEA
AT AN ALARMING RATE.
ALARMING RATE. A
FOOTBALL FIELD OF LAND
A FOOTBALL FIELD OF LAND
DISAPPEARS EVERY HOUR.
DISAPPEARS EVERY HOUR. OVER
A YEAR, THAT'S AS MUCH LAND
OVER A YEAR, THAT'S AS MUCH LAND
AS MANHATTAN GONE. LOUISIANA'S
STOP COASTAL EXPLAIN
STOP COASTAL EXPLAIN WHYIV
ENTIRE COAST OF THE
WHYIV ENTIRE COAST OF THE
MISSISSIPPI RIVER LIKE A
MISSISSIPPI RIVER LIKE A DIR
DIR AS HUMANS MOVED IN AND BUILT
AS HUMANS MOVED IN AND BUILT
LEVIES AND WALLS TO STOP THE
FLOODS, THE MARSHES WERE STARVED
AND HOWP OF THAT, OIL AND AYOUH
IT'S STILL REALLY DIFFICULT FOR
IT'S STILL REALLY DIFFICULT
FOR PEOPLE TO GET WK, YOU,
PEOPLE TO GET WK, YOU, HE
HE CHANGED, HOW,
YOU KNOW, THE KIND
CHANGED, HOW, YOU KNOW, THE KIND
OF INDUSTRY THAT WE HAD BEFORE,
THE INDUSTRIES THAT WE HAD
BEFORE, A LOT OF THEM AREN'T
HERE ANYMORE, HOW THE CASINOS,
RIGHT, HAVE BASICALLY SORT OF
TAKEN OVER THE ECONOMY AND ARE,
TAKEN OVER THE ECONOMY AND
ARE, LIKE, THE ONLY SOURCE OF
LIKE, THE ONLY SOURCE OF
EMPLOYMENT THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE
THAT I KNOW, YOU KNOW, HAVE
ACCESS TO, THAT MAKES ME
PESSIMISTIC, RIGHT, BECAUSE I --
I SEE HOW HARD IT IS, YOU KNOW,
FOR THE KIND OF PEOPLE THAT I
WROTE ABOUT IN "SALVAGE THE
BONES," YOU KNOW, FOR THE POOR,
THE MEMBERS OF MY FAMILY, FOR
THE PEOPLE IN MY COMMUNITY TO
LIVE HERE, MAKE A LIVING HERE,
ATTEMPT TO, YOU KNOW, HAVE SOME
ATTEMPT TO, YOU KNOW, HAVE
SOME SORT OF FUTURE HERE.
SORT OF FUTURE HERE. I THINK
IT'S BECOME ESPECIALLY
I THINK IT'S BECOME ESPECIALLY
DIFFICULT AFTER THE STORM, AND
I'M NOT EVEN, YOU KNOW, TALKING
ABOUT, LIKE, HOUSING COSTS,
ABOUT, LIKE, HOUSING
COSTS, RIGHT?
RIGHT? THOSE HAVE
SKYROCKETED, RIGHT?
THOSE HAVE SKYROCKETED, RIGHT?
AND THAT HAS DISPLACED A LOT OF
AND THAT HAS DISPLACED
A LOT OF PEOPLE.
PEOPLE. I THINK SOME
PEOPLE WANT TO COME
I THINK SOME PEOPLE WANT TO COME
HOME BUT CAN'T BECAUSE THEY
WON'T BE ABLE TO AFFORD A PLACE
WON'T BE ABLE TO AFFORD
A PLACE TO LIVE HERE.
TO LIVE HERE. >> Ifill:
AND DISPLACEMENT
>> Ifill: AND DISPLACEMENT
BECAME PERMANENT FOR SO MANY
BECAME PERMANENT FOR
SO MANY PEOPLE.
PEOPLE. >> YES.
>> YES. >> Ifill:
JESMYN WARD, THANK
>> Ifill: JESMYN WARD, THANK
YOU FOR TALKING TO US AND
YOU FOR TALKING TO US
AND SHARING YOUR STORY.
SHARING YOUR STORY. >>
THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.
>> Woodruff: VICE PRESIDENT JOE
BIDEN CONTINUES TO WEIGH A
POTENTIAL ENTRY INTO THE 2016
POTENTIAL ENTRY
INTO THE 2016 RACE.
RACE. BERNIE SANDERS IN SOUTH
BERNIE SANDERS IN SOUTH
CAROLINA, TRYING TO REACH BEYOND
CAROLINA, TRYING TO
REACH BEYOND HIS BASE.
HIS BASE. AND HOW IS
DONALD TRUMP CAUSING
AND HOW IS DONALD TRUMP CAUSING
THE G.O.P. CANDIDATES TO ADJUST?
IT'S A PERFECT TIME FOR POLITICS
IT'S A PERFECT TIME
FOR POLITICS MONDAY.
MONDAY. I'M JOINED
BY TAMARA KEITH OF
I'M JOINED BY TAMARA KEITH OF
NPR AND AMY WALTER OF THE "COOK
NPR AND AMY WALTER OF THE
"COOK POLITICAL REPORT."
POLITICAL REPORT." WELCOME
BACK TO YOU BOTH.
WELCOME BACK TO YOU BOTH. SO
WE'RE SITTING NEXT TO JOE
SO WE'RE SITTING NEXT TO JOE
BIDEN, HE'S STARING AT US.
BIDEN, HE'S STARING AT
US. HE'S WATCHING US.
HE'S WATCHING US. THE
STORIES CONTINUE EVERY DAY.
THE STORIES CONTINUE EVERY DAY.
HE'S SERIOUSLY TAKING A LOOK,
"THE WALL STREET JOURNAL" SAYING
TODAY HE'S LEANING TOWARD IT.
HE MET OVER THE WEEKEND WITH
SENATOR ELIZABETH WARREN OF
SENATOR ELIZABETH WARREN
OF MASSACHUSETTS.
MASSACHUSETTS. WHAT
IS THAT ALL ABOUT?
WHAT IS THAT ALL
ABOUT? >> RIGHT,.
>> RIGHT,. >ELIZABETH
WARREN IS SOPOPULAR L
>ELIZABETH WARREN IS SOPOPULAR
L PROGRESSIVE BASE OF THE
PROGRESSIVE BASE OF THE
DEMOCRATIC PARTY, IF JOE BIDEN
WERE TO GET HER ENDORSEMENT,
THAT WOULD GIVE HIM TRACTION IN
A RACE WHERE, RIGHT NOW, THERE
IS NO OBVIOUSLY LANE FOR HIM.
YOU KNOW, THERE IS NOTHING THAT
REALLY SETS HIM APART IN THIS
RACE OF HILLARY AND BERNIE
SANDERS AND MARTIN O'MALLEY IN
THAT HE'S OLDER THAN HILLARY
CLINTON IS, HE'S A WHITE MAN, HE
CLINTON IS, HE'S A WHITE MAN,
HE DOESN'T HAVE A NATURAL
DOESN'T HAVE A NATURAL
CONSTITUENCY IN THE WAY THAT
HILLARY CLINTON DOES AMONG WOMEN
AND AMONG AFRICAN-AMERICAN
VOTERS, SO HE'S GOT TO TRY TO
VOTERS, SO HE'S GOT TO TRY
TO FIND THE PLACE THERE.
FIND THE PLACE THERE. AND
THE ELIZABETH WARREN
AND THE ELIZABETH WARREN
ENDORSEMENT CERTAINLY WOULD HELP
ENDORSEMENT CERTAINLY
WOULD HELP THAT.
THAT. >> Woodruff:
WHAT WOULD SHE
>> Woodruff: WHAT
WOULD SHE BRING?
BRING? TAMARA, WHS OUT HER?
TAMARA, WHS OUT HER? WE
KNOW H SHE HAS HER OWN
WE KNOW H SHE HAS
HER OWN FOLLOWING.
FOLLOWING. >> HILLARY
CLINTON MET WITH
>> HILLARY CLINTON MET WITH
ELIZABETH WARREN IN FEBRUARY
WHEN SHE WAS CONSIDERING GETTING
WHEN SHE WAS CONSIDERING
GETTING INTO THE RACE.
INTO THE RACE. A LOT OF
PEOPLE ARE MEETING WITH
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE MEETING WITH
ELIZABETH WARREN IN PART BECAUSE
A LOT OF PEOPLE WANTED ELIZABETH
WARREN TO RUN FOR PRESIDENT AND
SHE BRINGS THE PROGRESSIVE
CREDENTIALS A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
CREDENTIALS A LOT OF
PEOPLE ARE ASKING FOR.
ASKING FOR. >> Woodruff: HAS SHE
>> Woodruff: HAS SHE
COMPLETELY RULED OUT RUNNING
COMPLETELY RULED OUT
RUNNING HERSELF?
HERSELF? >> I HAVE NO IDEA.
>> I HAVE NO IDEA. (LAUGHTER)
(LAUGHTER) HERE'S THE
THING, HIS PEOPLE
HERE'S THE THING, HIS PEOPLE
WON'T EVEN OFFICIALLY CONFIRMED
WON'T EVEN OFFICIALLY
CONFIRMED IT HAPPENED.
IT HAPPENED. THEY'RE
SAYING THEY'RE NOT
THEY'RE SAYING THEY'RE
NOT CONFIRMING IT.
CONFIRMING IT. SO THIS
IS JUST ONE OF VERY MANY
SO THIS IS JUST ONE OF VERY MANY
THINGS THAT SHOW HE IS SERIOUSLY
THINGS THAT SHOW HE IS
SERIOUSLY THINKING ABOUT IT.
THINKING ABOUT IT. HE IS
HAVING THE CONVERSATIONS
HE IS HAVING THE CONVERSATIONS
THAT A CANDIDATE WHO WANTS TO BE
A DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE NEEDS TO
A DEMOCRATIC CANDIDATE
NEEDS TO HAVE.
HAVE. >> THAT'S A
GREAT POINT BECAUSE
>> THAT'S A GREAT POINT BECAUSE
I DON'T KNOW THAT ELIZABETH
WARREN WILL ENDORSE.
WARREN WILL ENDORSE. BUT IT
IS A SIGN OF SERIOUSNESS
BUT IT IS A SIGN OF
SERIOUSNESS ON HIS PART.
ON HIS PART. >> Woodruff:
YOU WERE SAYING
>> Woodruff: YOU WERE SAYING
IT'S A TOUGHER PATH FOR HIM.
WHAT WOULD BE THE JOE BIDEN
WHAT WOULD BE THE JOE
BIDEN PATH, AMY?
PATH, AMY? >> THAT'S
A GOOD QUESTION.
>> THAT'S A GOOD QUESTION.
THERE IS A LOT OF TALK IN THE
BIDEN CAMPAIGN THAT A WE WOULD
REACH OUT TO THE CONSTITUENCY
THAT IS COMFORTABLE WITH JOE
BIDEN, THE MORE BLUE COLLAR,
WORKING-CLASS DEMOCRATS.
WORKING-CLASS DEMOCRATS. HE
WOULD ALSO GO TO A PLACE LIKE
HE WOULD ALSO GO TO A PLACE LIKE
SOUTH CAROLINA WHERE SHE'S WELL
KNOWN AND WELL LIKED ESPECIALLY
AMONG THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN
COMMUNITY HOWEVER, WHEN YOU LOOK
AT THE CONSTITUENCY NOW, THE
HILLARY CLINTON CONSTITUENCY IS
STILL VERY SUPPORTIVE OF HER AND
STILL VERY SUPPORTIVE
OF HER AND VERY BIG.
VERY BIG. WHEN YOU
LOOK AT HER SUPPORT
WHEN YOU LOOK AT HER SUPPORT
AMONG WOMEN, AMONG NON-WHITE
VOTERS, IT'S SIGNIFICANT, AND
THE ONLY WAY FOR JOE BIDEN TO
BREAK INTO THAT IS TO GO AFTER
HER AND AFTER THOSE VOTERS.
I DON'T KNOW THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING HE'S GOING TO WANT TO
SOMETHING HE'S GOING
TO WANT TO DO.
DO. >> Woodruff: THAT'S A LOT OF
>> Woodruff: THAT'S A LOT OF
IFs, TAMARA, AND EVEN WITH THE
IFs, TAMARA, AND EVEN WITH
THE EMAIL CONTROVERSY.
EMAIL CONTROVERSY. >> BIG
IFs ABOUT WHETHER JOE
>> BIG IFs ABOUT WHETHER JOE
BIDEN REALLY WANTS TO GET INTO
THE OR ULTIMATELY WILL GET INTO
THE OR ULTIMATELY
WILL GET INTO THIS.
THIS. HIS STOCK IS
VERY HIGH RIGHT NOW
HIS STOCK IS VERY HIGH RIGHT
NOW AND, BECAUSE OF THE EMAIL
AND, BECAUSE OF THE EMAIL
CONTROVERSY, THERE IS THIS ANGST
AMONG SOME DEMOCRATS THAT I'M
SURE JOE BIDEN IS HEARING.
PEOPLE ESPECIALLY ESTABLISHMENT
DEMOCRATS IN SOUTH CAROLINA ARE
VERY CONCERNED AND I HAVE BEEN
TOLD HE'S HEARING FROM THEM.
TOLD HE'S HEARING FROM THEM. SO
I THINK THAT'S PART OF WHAT'S
SO I THINK THAT'S PART
OF WHAT'S GOING ON.
GOING ON. BUT, YES,
THERE IS A GIANT "IF."
BUT, YES, THERE IS A GIANT "IF."
IF VI PRECESIDENT BIDEN WANTS TO
IF VI PRECESIDENT BIDEN WANTS
TO GO THROUGH THIS AGAIN.
GO THROUGH THIS AGAIN.
HE'S RUN TWICE BEFORE.
HE'S RUN TWICE BEFORE. >>
Woodruff: THE OTHER BIG
>> Woodruff: THE OTHER BIG
NAME IS BERNIE SANDERS.
NAME IS BERNIE SANDERS. HE
WAS IN SOUTH CAROLINA OVER
HE WAS IN SOUTH CAROLINA
OVER THE WEEKEND.
THE WEEKEND. YOU KNOW,
WE DESCRIBED IT AS
YOU KNOW, WE DESCRIBED IT AS
REACHING BEYOND HIS BASE.
REACHING BEYOND HIS BASE. THE
POINT IS MADE THAT THE CROWD
THE POINT IS MADE THAT THE CROWD
WHO TURNED OUT FOR HIM WAS A
WHO TURNED OUT FOR HIM WAS
A LARGELY WHITE CROWD.
LARGELY WHITE CROWD. SOUTH
CAROLINA DEMOCRATS ARE
SOUTH CAROLINA DEMOCRATS ARE
MAJORITY AFRICAN-AMERICAN.
WHAT IS HIS PATH IN THE STATES
WHAT IS HIS PATH IN THE
STATES WHERE BLACKS MAKE UP A
WHERE BLACKS MAKE UP A
SIGNIFICANT PART OF THE
SIGNIFICANT PART OF
THE DEMOCRATIC --
DEMOCRATIC -- >> WELL,
THAT'S WHAT HE DID THIS
>> WELL, THAT'S WHAT HE DID THIS
WEEKEND IS HE WENT AND SPOKE TO
GROUPS AND COMMUNITIES SAYING
I'M GOING TO LEARN ABOUT THIS,
I'M GOING TO REACH OUT MORE TO
THE AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY.
PART OF THIS WITH BERNIE SANDERS
PART OF THIS WITH BERNIE
SANDERS IS HE DOESN'T HAVE A
IS HE DOESN'T HAVE A
RELATIONSHIP NOT JUST IN
SOUTH CAROLINA BUT WITH THE
AFRICAN-AMERICAN COMMUNITY AT
AFRICAN-AMERICAN
COMMUNITY AT LARGE.
LARGE. EVERYBODY
KNOWS WHO HILLARY
EVERYBODY KNOWS WHO HILLARY
CLINTON AND JOE BIDEN IS AND
CLINTON AND JOE BIDEN IS
AND THEY HAVE LONG, DEEP
THEY HAVE LONG,
DEEP RELATIONSHIPS.
RELATIONSHIPS. BERNIE
SANDERS IS STARTING FROM
BERNIE SANDERS IS
STARTING FROM SCRATCH.
SCRATCH. HE'S A SENATOR
FROM VERMONT, NOT
HE'S A SENATOR FROM VERMONT, NOT
EXACTLY THE MOST DIVERSE STATE
EXACTLY THE MOST DIVERSE
STATE OUT THERE.
OUT THERE. >> Woodruff:
BUT HE'S STARTED
>> Woodruff: BUT HE'S STARTED
TO MAKE SOME POLICY STATEMENTS.
TO MAKE SOME POLICY
STATEMENTS. >> ABSOLUTELY.
>> ABSOLUTELY. BERNIE
SANDERS CAME OUT WITH A
BERNIE SANDERS CAME OUT WITH
A PRETTY STRONG STATEMENT ON
PRETTY STRONG STATEMENT ON
CRIMINAL JUSTICE, SOMETHING THAT
THE BLACK LIVES MATTER MOVEMENT
WANTED HIM TO DO AND THEY'RE
PRAISING HIM FOR DOING THAT.
PRAISING HIM FOR DOING
THAT. HE HAD A MEETING IN
HE HAD A MEETING IN SOUTH
CAROLINA WITH BLACK LIVES
SOUTH CAROLINA WITH BLACK
LIVES MATTER AND OTHERS.
MATTER AND OTHERS. HE'S
MAKING A MOVEMENT.
HE'S MAKING A MOVEMENT. HE'S
TRYING, WORKING ON IT, BUT
HE'S TRYING, WORKING ON IT, BUT
THE PEOPLE WHO SHOWED UP FOR HIS
RALLIES DID NOT LOOK LIKE THE
RALLIES DID NOT LOOK LIKE
THE DEMOCRATIC VOTERS OF
DEMOCRATIC VOTERS OF SOUTH
CAROLINA, THEY LOOKED LIKE
SOUTH CAROLINA, THEY LOOKED
LIKE THE DEMOCRATIC VOTERS OF
THE DEMOCRATIC VOTERS
OF NEW HAMPSHIRE.
NEW HAMPSHIRE. >>
Woodruff: NO POLITICAL
>> Woodruff: NO POLITICAL
DISCUSSION IS COMPLETE THESE
DAYS WITHOUT A QUESTION
ABOUT DONALD TRUMP.
DONALD TRUMP. HE'S NOW
BEEN, AMY, IN THIS RACE
HE'S NOW BEEN, AMY, IN THIS RACE
LONG ENOUGH FOR US TO BEGIN TO
LONG ENOUGH FOR US TO BEGIN
TO TRY TO GET A HANDLE ON THE
TRY TO GET A HANDLE ON THE
EFFECT HE'S HAVING ON THE
OTHER REPUBLICANS RUNNING.
REPUBLICANS RUNNING.
WHAT ARE YOU SEEING?
WHAT ARE YOU SEEING? IS
ANYTHING SHAPING UP?
IS ANYTHING SHAPING UP? >> I
THINK IT'S DEFINITELY TRUE.
>> I THINK IT'S DEFINITELY TRUE.
THERE'S BEEN A TRUMP BUMP AND
CANDIDATES HAVE REACTED TO THAT
AND SOME HAVE BEEN HELPED AND
SOME HAVE BEEN HURT BY THIS.
SOME HAVE BEEN HURT BY THIS. I
THINK THE PERSON MOST HURT BY
I THINK THE PERSON MOST HURT
BY THIS HAS BEEN SCOTT WALKER.
THIS HAS BEEN SCOTT WALKER.
HE'S THE CANDIDATE WHO GOING
INTO THE SUMMER IS CONSIDERED
INTO THE SUMMER IS
CONSIDERED THE FRONTRUNNER.
THE FRONTRUNNER. HE WAS
THE CONSERVATIVE, HE'S
HE WAS THE CONSERVATIVE,
HE'S THE OUTSIDER.
THE OUTSIDER. THAT'S BEEN
TAKEN AWAY BY DONALD
THAT'S BEEN TAKEN
AWAY BY DONALD TRUMP.
TRUMP. JEB BUSH HAS
BEEN HELPED IN SOME
JEB BUSH HAS BEEN HELPED IN SOME
WAYS BECAUSE IT'S ALL ON TRUMP
WAYS BECAUSE IT'S
ALL ON TRUMP NOW.
NOW. >> Woodruff:
WHAT DO YOU SEE,
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU
SEE, HIS EFFECT ON OTHERS?
HIS EFFECT ON OTHERS?
>> A COLLEAGUE OF MINE
INTERVIEWED SOMEONE AT THE IOWA
STATE FAIR WHO SAID ABOUT SCOTT
WALKER THAT HE BLANDED HIMSELF
WALKER THAT HE BLANDED
HIMSELF OFF THE MAP.
OFF THE MAP.
MEANWHILE, STANDING --
>> Woodruff: GOOD VERB.
>> Woodruff: GOOD VERB. BLANDED.
BLANDED. STANDING
NEXT TO DONALD TRUMP,
STANDING NEXT TO DONALD TRUMP,
WHO IS ANYTHING BUT BLAND.
WHO IS ANYTHING BUT BLAND. I
THINK ONE THING WITH DONALD
I THINK ONE THING WITH DONALD
TRUMP IS THOSE OF US WHO LIVE
INSIDE OF THE BELTWAY TRIED TO
FIGURE HIM OUT BASED ON SORT OF
FIGURE HIM OUT BASED ON SORT
OF THE PARTY LINES THAT WE
THE PARTY LINES THAT WE
UNDERSTAND AND I THINK DONALD
TRUMP IS SORT OF BREAKING
THROUGH THE TRADITIONAL PARTY
LINES AND, IN REALITY, PROBABLY
A LOT OF VOTERS AND A LOT OF
PEOPLE WHO SUPPORT HIM DON'T
ACTUALLY FIT CLEARLY INTO THE
DEMOCRATIC OR REPUBLICAN BUCKET.
>> Woodruff: WHICH IS NOT ONLY
A CHALLENGE FOR POLITICAL
REPORTERS, IT'S A CHALLENGE FOR
THE OTHER CANDIDATES RUNNING
AGAINST HIM TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT SPACE IS LEFT FOR HEM.
WHAT SPACE IS LEFT FOR HEM. ALL
RIGHT, IT'S POLITICS MONDAY,
ALL RIGHT, IT'S POLITICS MONDAY,
AMY WALTER, TAMERA KEITH, GREAT
AMY WALTER, TAMERA KEITH,
GREAT TO HAVE YOU BOTH.
TO HAVE YOU BOTH. THANKS
AND SEE YOU NEXT MONDAY.
>> Woodruff: OUR NEXT STORY IS
ONE THAT'S GENERATED LOTS OF
ONE THAT'S GENERATED LOTS
OF EXCITEMENT NOT JUST IN
EXCITEMENT NOT JUST IN
WASHINGTON, BUT AROUND THE
WASHINGTON, BUT
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
COUNTRY. THE NATIONAL
ZOO IS HOME TO NEW
THE NATIONAL ZOO IS HOME TO NEW
TWIN PANDA CUBS, BUT THE FIRST
WEEKS ARE CRITICAL AND SOMETIMES
RISKY, AND ZOO OFFICIALS SAID
LAST NIGHT WAS A CHALLENGING
LAST NIGHT WAS A
CHALLENGING ONE.
ONE. JEFFREY BROWN
HAS THE STORY.
JEFFREY BROWN HAS THE STORY.
>> Brown: IT WAS A CELEBRATORY
WEEKEND FOR GIANT PANDAS AND ALL
WEEKEND FOR GIANT PANDAS AND
ALL AT THE NATIONAL ZOO IN
AT THE NATIONAL ZOO IN
WASHINGTON, BAO BAO MARKED HER
SECOND BIRTHDAY WITH A FROZEN
CAKE OF JUICE AND FRUIT.
AND HER MOTHER, MEI XIANG,
SURPRISED ZOO STAFF WHEN SHE
GAVE BIRTH TO NOT ONE BUT TWO
GAVE BIRTH TO NOT
ONE BUT TWO CUBS.
CUBS. >> I HEARD
HER MAKE A SIMILAR
>> I HEARD HER MAKE A SIMILAR
SOUND THAT SHE HAD MADE EARLIER
IN THE DAY BEFORE SHE HAD GIVEN
BIRTH, SORT OF A GRUNTING SOUND.
AND I LOOKED OVER AT THE CAMERA
AND I LOOKED OVER AT THE
CAMERA AND OUT POPPED THE CUB.
AND OUT POPPED THE CUB. WE
IMMEDIATELY JUMPED INTO OK,
WE IMMEDIATELY JUMPED INTO
OK, WHAT DO WE DO NOW?
WHAT DO WE DO NOW? >>
Brown: ABOUT HALF OF PANDA
>> Brown: ABOUT HALF OF PANDA
BIRTHS RESULT IN TWINS.
BIRTHS RESULT IN TWINS. THE
CUBS ARE NEARLY HAIRLESS,
THE CUBS ARE NEARLY HAIRLESS,
FRAGILE AND ONLY THE SIZE OF A
STICK OF BUTTER, TWO CUBS AT
ONCE CAN PRESENT A CHALLENGE FOR
ONCE CAN PRESENT A CHALLENGE
FOR THEIR MOTHERS.
THEIR MOTHERS. SO THE
ZOO'S PANDA TEAM QUICKLY
SO THE ZOO'S PANDA TEAM QUICKLY
STEPPED IN TO HELP MEI XIANG.
>> SHE WAS REALLY STRUGGLING.
SHE WAS TRYING BUT SHE WASN'T
ABLE TO PICK UP BOTH OF THE
ABLE TO PICK UP
BOTH OF THE CUBS.
CUBS. SO, WE DID
GO IN AND AT THE
SO, WE DID GO IN AND AT THE
RIGHT MOMENT, WE WERE ABLE TO GO
IN AND GRAB ONE OF THE CUBS AND
TAKE IT OUT SAFELY WHEN MEI
XIANG WAS NOT CLOSE TO IT.
XIANG WAS NOT CLOSE TO IT. >>
Brown: AND THAT WILL BE THE
>> Brown: AND THAT WILL
BE THE DRILL FOR A WHILE.
DRILL FOR A WHILE. THE PANDA
MOTHER CARING FOR HER
THE PANDA MOTHER CARING FOR HER
NEWBORNS ONE AT A TIME, WHILE
VETERINARIANS SWAP THEM IN AND
OUT OF INCUBATORS TO MONITOR
OUT OF INCUBATORS TO
MONITOR EACH CUB'S HEALTH.
EACH CUB'S HEALTH. WITH
ONLY 1800 PANDAS IN THE
WITH ONLY 1800 PANDAS IN THE
WILD AND 350 IN CAPTIVITY
WORLDWIDE, EACH SUCCESSFUL
GROWTH IS CRITICAL TO THE
LONG-TERM PROTECTION OF THE
LONG-TERM PROTECTION
OF THE SPECIES.
SPECIES. THE TWIN
THE TWIN THE TWIN
BIRTHS IN CAPTIVITY ARE
THE TWIN BIRTHS IN CAPTIVITY
ARE A RARE THING.
A RARE THING. IT MARKS
JUST THE THIRD TIME
IT MARKS JUST THE THIRD TIME
THAT GIANT PANDA TWINS HAVE BEEN
THAT GIANT PANDA TWINS
HAVE BEEN BORN IN THE U.S.
BORN IN THE U.S. AND THE
ODDS OF BOTH SURVIVING
AND THE ODDS OF BOTH SURVIVING
HAVE NOT BEEN FAVORABLE
HISTORICALLY.
HISTORICALLY. DR.
PIERRE COMIZZOLI IS THE
DR. PIERRE COMIZZOLI IS THE
REPRODUCTIVE PHYSIOLOGIST WHO
HAS PERFORMED ARTIFICIAL
INSEMINATIONS ON
INSEMINATIONS ON MEI XIANG
EVERY YEAR SINCE 2004.
MEI XIANG EVERY YEAR SINCE 2004.
HE'S WITH THE SMITHSONIAN
CONSERVATION BIOLOGY INSTITUTE.
CONSERVATION BIOLOGY
INSTITUTE. WELCOME TO YOU.
WELCOME TO YOU. THE FIRST
QUESTION HAS TO BE HOW
THE FIRST QUESTION HAS TO
BE HOW ARE THEY DOING NOW?
ARE THEY DOING NOW? >>
WELL, THEY ARE DOING
>> WELL, THEY ARE
DOING EXTREMELY WELL.
EXTREMELY WELL. LAST TIME
I SAW THEM WAS EARLY
LAST TIME I SAW THEM WAS EARLY
IN THE AFTERNOON, AND THEY WERE
SQUEALING AND WIGGLING AND THEY
SQUEALING AND WIGGLING AND
THEY WERE DOING OKAY.
WERE DOING OKAY. >>
Brown: WHY IS IT SO HARD
>> Brown: WHY IS IT SO HARD FOR
A PANDA TO BECOME PREGNANT?
FOR A PANDA TO BECOME PREGNANT?
I WAS READING ABOUT AN
EXCEEDINGLY NARROW WINDOW,
EXCEEDINGLY NARROW
WINDOW, RIGHT?
RIGHT? >> YES, YES,
BECAUSE THE FEMALE
>> YES, YES, BECAUSE THE FEMALE
HAS A REALLY SHORT OPPORTUNITY
HAS A REALLY SHORT
OPPORTUNITY TO CONCEIVE.
TO CONCEIVE. IT'S A
PERIOD OF TIME THAT
IT'S A PERIOD OF TIME THAT
VARIES BETWEEN 24 AND 36 HOURS,
AND THAT HAPPENS ONLY ONCE A
AND THAT HAPPENS
ONLY ONCE A YEAR.
YEAR. >> Brown: ONCE A YEAR.
>> Brown: ONCE A YEAR.
YES, ONCE A YEAR.
YES, ONCE A YEAR. SO YOU
DON'T WANT TO MISS THAT
SO YOU DON'T WANT TO MISS
THAT WINDOW OF OPPORTUNITY.
WINDOW OF OPPORTUNITY.
>> Brown: I'VE SEEN YOU
REFERRED TO AS FERNL
GYNECOLOGIST TO MEI XIANGISH THE
GYNECOLOGIST TO MEI XIANGISH
THE PERSONAL GYNECOLOGIST.
PERSONAL GYNECOLOGIST. SO YOU
ARE AWARE OF THE WINDOW.
SO YOU ARE AWARE OF THE WINDOW.
>> YES, AND WE ARE CLOSELY
MONITORING THE FEMALE TO KNOW
EXACTLY WHEN THE WINDOW OF
OPPORTUNITY IS GOING TO START
AND THEN GOING TO END, SO WE
HAVE DIFFERENT WAYS TO MONITOR
THAT THROUGH HORMONES, BEHAVIOR
AND, SO, WE KNOW EXACTLY WHAT WE
AND, SO, WE KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT WE ARE DOING.
ARE DOING. >> Brown:
THESE CUBS ARE BORN
>> Brown: THESE CUBS ARE BORN
THROUGH ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION?
THROUGH ARTIFICIAL
INSEMINATION? >> YES.
>> YES. >> Brown: BUT
I READ YOU DON'T
>> Brown: BUT I READ YOU DON'T
KNOW WHO THE DADDY WOULD BE.
KNOW WHO THE DADDY
WOULD BE. >> NOT YET.
>> NOT YET. WE'RE
GOING TO DO GENETIC
WE'RE GOING TO DO GENETIC
TESTING TO FIGURE THIS OUT.
>> Brown: THE POSSIBILITIES
ARE -- THE SPERM COMES FROM?
>> THE SPERM COMES FROM TWO
DIFFERENT MALES, AND THE ODDS
ARE THAT, YOU KNOW, BOTH CUBS
COULD BE FROM THE SAME FATHER OR
ONE CUB COULD BE FROM ONE FATHER
AND THE OTHER ONE FROM THE OTHER
AND THE OTHER ONE
FROM THE OTHER ONE.
ONE. >> Brown: WELL, SO YOU HAVE
>> Brown: WELL, SO YOU HAVE THE
WONDER OF THE TWO BORN, BUT
THE WONDER OF THE TWO BORN, BUT
THEN ALSO HISTORY TELLS US HOW
DIFFICULT THAT IS FOR ANY TO
DIFFICULT THAT IS FOR
ANY TO SURVIVE, RIGHT?
SURVIVE, RIGHT? WHY IS IT
SO HARD FOR PANDA CUBS
WHY IS IT SO HARD FOR
PANDA CUBS TO SURVIVE?
TO SURVIVE? >> THIS
IS REALLY CHALLENGING
>> THIS IS REALLY CHALLENGING
FOR THE MOTHER TO TAKE CARE OF
TWO SMALL CUBS THAT NEED A LOT
OF ATTENTION AND THAT NEED TO
OF ATTENTION AND THAT NEED
TO NURSE ON A REGULAR BASIS.
NURSE ON A REGULAR BASIS. SO
WE DON'T KNOW IN THE WILD
SO WE DON'T KNOW IN THE WILD
EXACTLY HOW THE MOTHERS ARE
DOING THAT, BUT WHAT WE KNOW IS
DOING THAT, BUT WHAT WE KNOW
IS PROBABLY AT SOME POINT THEY
PROBABLY AT SOME POINT THEY
ABANDON ONE OF THE CUBS AND DO
NOT REALLY RAISE THE TWO CUBS.
BUT IN CAPTIVITY, WE CAN
DEFINITELY MAINTAIN THE TWO CUBS
DEFINITELY MAINTAIN THE TWO
CUBS ALIVE UNTIL THE ADULT AGE.
ALIVE UNTIL THE ADULT AGE. >>
Brown: IN THE WILD, YOU'RE
>> Brown: IN THE WILD, YOU'RE
SAYING THE MOTHER WOULD OFTEN
PICK ONE, ENSURING THE SURVIVAL
PICK ONE, ENSURING
THE SURVIVAL OF ONE?
OF ONE? >> YES, BUT,
AGAIN, THOSE ARE
>> YES, BUT, AGAIN, THOSE
ARE REALLY ASSUMPTIONS.
REALLY ASSUMPTIONS. WE
DON'T KNOW EXACTLY HOW IT
WE DON'T KNOW EXACTLY HOW
IT WORKS IN THE WILD.
WORKS IN THE WILD. >>
Brown: WELL, SO WHAT DO YOU
>> Brown: WELL, SO WHAT DO
YOU DO OR CAN YOU DO NOW?
DO OR CAN YOU DO NOW? >> WELL,
NOW, TO REALLY MAXIMIZE
>> WELL, NOW, TO REALLY MAXIMIZE
THE CHANCES FOR BOTH CUBS TO
NURSE PROPERLY AND TO BOND WITH
THE MOTHER, WHAT WE DO IS WE
THE MOTHER, WHAT WE DO IS
WE REMOVE ONE OF THE CUBS.
REMOVE ONE OF THE CUBS. IT
STAYS IN AN INCUBATOR, PROPER
IT STAYS IN AN INCUBATOR, PROPER
TEMPERATURE AND HUMIDITY, WHILE
THE MOTHER IS NURSING ONE CUB.
THEN AFTER THAT, WE CHANGE, WE
SWAP, AND IT COMES, YOU KNOW,
REALLY EASIER FOR THE MOTHER TO
TAKE CARE OF ONE CUB AT A TIME.
>> Brown: I CITED THE NUMBER
OF PANDAS AROUND THE WORLD.
WHAT IS THE THREAT TO THEM AND
IS THE SITUATION GETTING BETTER
BECAUSE TO HAVE THE WORK YOU'RE
BECAUSE TO HAVE THE WORK
YOU'RE DOING FOR THEM?
DOING FOR THEM? >> OF COURSE.
>> OF COURSE. YOU HAVE
TO REALIZE THE BIGGEST
YOU HAVE TO REALIZE THE BIGGEST
THREAT THE APPEARANCE TO HAVE
THE NATURAL HABITATS, THE BAMBOO
S YEAR IS GETTING BETTER ANDT
BETTER BECAUSE THERE ARE A LOT
OF MEASURES TO PROTECT THE
NATURAL HABITAT OF THOSE
NATURAL HABITAT
OF THOSE ANIMALS.
ANIMALS. WHAT WE DO
IN CAPTIVITY IS ALSO
WHAT WE DO IN CAPTIVITY IS ALSO
EXTREMELY IMPORTANT BECAUSE WE
PROVIDE, YOU KNOW, EXTRA ANIMALS
THAT WE CAN REINTRODUCE IN THE
THAT WE CAN REINTRODUCE
IN THE NATURAL HABITATS.
NATURAL HABITATS. >>
Brown: BRIEFLY, FINALLY,
>> Brown: BRIEFLY, FINALLY, HAVE
YOU FIGURED OUT WHY THEY'RE
HAVE YOU FIGURED OUT WHY THEY'RE
SO BELOVED, WHY PEOPLE JUST LOVE
SO BELOVED, WHY PEOPLE
JUST LOVE THESE ANIMALS?
THESE ANIMALS? IS IT ONLY
THE WAY THEY LOOK OR
IS IT ONLY THE WAY THEY
LOOK OR WHAT IS THIS.
WHAT IS THIS. >> YES, I
THINK THEY HAVE THIS
>> YES, I THINK THEY HAVE THIS
WONDERFUL, YOU KNOW, APPEARANCE,
AND THEY LOOK SO CUDDLY AND
FUZZY, AND I THINK, YOU KNOW, IT
REFERS TO REALLY TEDDY BEARS.
REFERS TO REALLY TEDDY
BEARS. THEY LOOK LIKE TOYS.
THEY LOOK LIKE TOYS. THEY
ARE CARNIVORES AND WILD
THEY ARE CARNIVORES AND WILD
ANIMALS, BUT I THINK THEY ARE
ANIMALS, BUT I THINK
THEY ARE FASCINATING.
FASCINATING. >> Brown:
I KNOW EVERYONE IS
>> Brown: I KNOW EVERYONE IS
WISHING YOU GOOD LUCK OVER
WISHING YOU GOOD
LUCK OVER THERE.
THERE. PIERRE
COMIZZOLI, THANK YOU SO
PIERRE COMIZZOLI,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
MUCH. >> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE: SPACE LOVERS ARE MARKING
THE DEATH OF A PLANET TODAY.
EXACTLY NINE YEARS AGO, PLUTO
WAS DEMOTED TO A DWARF PLANET, A
CALL THAT IS STILL CONTROVERSIAL
CALL THAT IS STILL
CONTROVERSIAL TODAY.
TODAY. WE LOOK BACK
AT HOW THIS DISTANT
WE LOOK BACK AT HOW THIS DISTANT
BODY HAS FOREVER CHANGED OUR
VIEW OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM.
THAT'S ON OUR HOME PAGE.
THAT'S ON OUR HOME PAGE. ALL
THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEB SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
SITE, pbs.org/newshour.
AS YOU SAW, GWEN'S IN NEW
AS YOU SAW, GWEN'S IN
NEW ORLEANS TODAY.
ORLEANS TODAY. SHE HAS A
LOOK AT WHAT'S NEXT IN
SHE HAS A LOOK AT WHAT'S NEXT
IN OUR SERIES LOOKING BACK AT
OUR SERIES LOOKING BACK
AT HURRICANE KATRINA.
HURRICANE KATRINA. >>
Ifill: THE TOMORROW NIGHT,
>> Ifill: THE TOMORROW NIGHT, WE
GO TO NEW ORLEANS-LOWER NINTH
WE GO TO NEW ORLEANS-LOWER NINTH
WARD TO EXAMINE THE CHALLENGES
THAT RECOVERING NEIGHBORHOODS
STILL FACES TEN YEARS LATER.
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S
THE NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF. JOIN
US ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE
JOIN US ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
TOMORROW EVENING. FOR
ALL OF US AT THE PBS
FOR ALL OF US AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU
AND GOOD NIGHT.